I suggest to add sections that could enforce practical aspects in the notes:

- Building a dissemination workflow
- Building an interconnected DOI workflow
- landing page
- citation requirements
- tombstone page
- versioning
- recommendation checklist

# Building a dissemination worklow
DOI workflow requires metadata curation based on the DataCite schema which allows to improve the FAIRness of the datasets. Other workflows exists with their own semantic and metadata serialisation. These are multiple, they overlap and are also specific.

For instance, the IVOA framework provides a registry with a high level  of interoperability and point directly to the resources, whereas Datacite is specialized in data citation and link a human web page called 'landing page'.

```**Note**: DOI implies to maintain a sustainable mechanism to provide a URL. This requirements, even if also in usage in the IVOA registry, is mandatory for DOI.
```

Datasets distributed in diverses frameworks complement each other and are likeky harvested by platforms or search engine such as ADS, EOSC, Google Dataset. These infrastructure adopt merge mechanisms, often a black box, that depends of their own strategy. Note that DOI, as unique identifier, facilitate the cross operations.

The list of metadata tends to increase, but the most popular are DataCite schema, The Dublin Core (the ivoa registry was based on it), schema.org (extend Dublin Core and is used by Google), DCAT (linked catalogues, datasets and services. DCAT is a concurent of the VO registry, used for instance in Earth sciences), OpenCitation (a schema of linked citation),  etc.

```All are specific, and we highlight the importance for Data providers to disseminate consistent metadata (for instance list the whole authors in all output).
```

In practice, it is better for implementers to think since the begining about the different output in order to provide consistent workflow.

**Note**: DataCite provides several serialisation of the metadata, in particular "schema.org".

```Maintain the disseminations workflows togethers
```
See also the presention of H.Enke, Interop 2023, Bologna: https://wiki.ivoa.net/internal/IVOA/InterOpMay2023RegistryDCP/DOI-AIP-20230510.pdf

# Building an interconneted DOI workflow
Example Chandra

# Landing pages
Landing page is a WEB page attached to the DOI (eg: ....)
Datacite provides a documentation about good usage (https://support.datacite.org/docs/landing-pages)

```the landing page is primarily dedicated for Human. The whole DOI metadata should be visible in the web page. In particular, the DOI, title, authors, licences should be highlighted.
```

Additional information are often added. In particular links to services to access the data, but also any other information, specific to the data center or included in other workflows provided by the Data Center (bibtex, schema.org, DCAT, etc)

## Generate a machine-readable landing page
Search engines harvest landing page for indexation and expect some metadata serialized with a standard semantic.
For instance "schema.org" or DCAT serialized in JSON-LD are read by Google Datasets (see ...). 

The FAIRness of the landing page can be evaluated with validators :

- FAIRchecker: https://fair-checker.france-bioinformatique.fr/
- Google: https://developers.google.com/search/docs/appearance/structured-data

# Citation requirements
Citation requires metadata to be serialized in bibtex, APA, ADS, etc.
The content of metadata depend of the serialisation and of the need of quality (bibtex generated by ADS is more rich than those provided by DataCite)
We will describe the mandatory items that cover the known citations and we will complete the metadata with added relevant information.

The above list of metadata are mandatory to respond to the different citation:
- identifier
- link to the dataset or landing page
- title
- year of publication
- complete authors list and possible contributors
(to complete)

See in section ?? to get more information

**Note**: DataCite provides different format that allows to check different citation output. 
eg: ```curl -LH "Accept: application/x-bibtex" https://doi.org/10.5270/esa-1ugzkg7```

# Tombstone page
DOI require a meachnism that provide a sustainable URL. The URL itself can change (eg: the domain used by the data center evolved).
In an article, a citation with a DOI allows to link the landing page. The information as well as the datasets access are relevant for the article content. So, in principle, the datasets havig DOI should be sustainable. 


If for any unfortunate reason, the datasets is no more available, provide a Tombstone page explaining the reasons and a link to a copy of the archive if it exists.

Tombstone page must not be used for versioning.

# Versioning
Distinguish dataset versioning (the Data Center responsability) and metadata versioning (automated versioning done by DataCite at each update)

Different mechanism exist:
- Zenodo: create a DOI collection of versions. Each version has its own DOI which are linked (related identifier).
  Preferable for reproducibility
- create 1 DOI for version, link the DOI version together using related identifier 'isNewVersionOf', 'isPreviousVersionOf'

# Recommendation checklist
see checklist.md


# Metadata list:
- authors/contributors
- keywords
- dates
- title and description
- licences
- alternate identifier
- linked data:
  - collection of resources
  - resources used to generate the dataset: copy, etc

